>> James Halliday: Visual select
is a fantastic feature that I use
all of the time.
It's really useful when you're coding
because you can do things like indent and
unindent whole blocks of code.
So why don't I open a file
on some programming?
>> James Halliday: Let me just pick one.
>> James Halliday: Okay,
here's some source code.
So to go into visual mode,
there's a few ways of doing it.
There's a,
if you just hit v from command mode,
>> James Halliday: Then vim
prints out VISUAL at the bottom, and
you're in character select mode.
So you can move around with j and
k and l and h and select something.
When you're in visual mode as well,
you can also use all of
the ways of skipping around.
So 0, $ forward slash to a pattern,
so I can skip ahead to function
by doing /function, and
now I'm skipped ahead to there.
You can also do things like if I
want to delete everything that
is currently matched in visual mode,
I can hit x or d, and it all goes away.
I can undo that.
There's also visual line select mode,
which I think is even more useful for
our coding.
So you do that by typing
capital V from command mode.
So when you're in visual line mode,
it prints out VISUAL LINE at
the bottom of the screen.
Now you can move around with j, and k.
You can also search for things but
you can't move around with h and
l because it's only
selecting individual lines.
So really handy thing when you're
in this mode is for example,
if I want to indent a whole section of
code, I can visually select something.
And maybe I'll search for
a curly brace at the beginning
of the line,
which I did by typing slash, caret,
close curly brace, and
then I can go up a character.
And there's built-in functionality for
doing indents and unindent.
So to indent this whole block of code that
I've selected, I can do greater than.
So if you type greater than,
it all gets indented.
You can also push dot to indent again and
again and
again and you can hit u to undo that.
You can also unindent
code by doing less than.
So if I select the same thing, or I can
actually hit colon and do the up arrow.
Or I think, no, I can't do that.
But if I do that and I do less than,
then it gets unindented.
So here's all of that code
flush with the left margin.
You can also if you have
line selected something,
do a replacement just
on this block of code.
So suppose I wanna replace,
this code has four spaces.
Maybe I want it to be two spaces.
So I can do a little regular
expression now by typing colon
s/, and then I can hit,
I can either hit the space bar four times.
Or I can probably do that and
then replace it with two-
>> Speaker 2: Those carets there,
did you want that there?
>> James Halliday: Yeah,
those are put there by vim when
you're in line select mode.
That's just the way that it's done.
All right, so
I guess vim doesn't like the quantifiers.
Probably the engine doesn't support it.
So if you hit space bar four times,
>> James Halliday: Just as well.
Okay, so
now it's indented with two spaces.
You could also do the same thing to add or
remove semicolons, all kinds of stuff.